
<a name="laying-out-your-ui-on-the-blade"></a>
## Laying out your UI on the blade

While blade templates allow you to layout your controls as particular DOM elements we generally recommend an alternative approach
of binding a section view model into the DOM and then adding control view models to the section's `children` observable array.
The section provides default styling in terms of spacing and margins and an easier way to deal with dynamically adding/removing controls.
You can even use the CustomHtml control to author HTML in the middle of an autogenerated layout. A large majority of blades can use these
two controls to avoid having to put much HTML in your blade template but of course placing the controls in the DOM yourself is always
an option if needed.

As mentioned above to use a section you'll need to create a section view model and bind it into the DOM in your blade template using the 
'pcControl' binding handler. Then add all the controls you would like to be displayed to the `children` observable on the section. 
By default this lays them out one after the other on a blade. By using the section's `style` property you can achieve other layouts 
as well such as a table layout with controls in multiple rows and columns, a list of tabs or a combination of layouts.

Follow [this link](http://aka.ms/portalfx/samples#blade/SamplesExtension/SDKMenuBlade/formsallup) and then click on 'Basic Create Form' for an example and this of what it looks like.
This is the code to create the section:

```typescript

var mySectionOptions: Section.Options = {
    children: ko.observableArray<any>([
        this.myTextBox,
        this.myChecklessTextBox,
        this.myPasswordBox,
        this.myGroupDropDown,
        myDependentSection,
        this.myCheckBox,
        this.mySelector,
        this.myDropDown,
    ])
};
this.mySection = new Section.ViewModel(this._container, mySectionOptions);

```

And the template is just binding the section into the DOM:

```
﻿<div class="msportalfx-form" data-bind="pcControl: mySection"></div>
```

Since it will autogenerate the layout for all of it's children.


[FormSection]: ../media/portalfx-forms-sections/forms-sections.png
